1) I want to make this project true to me and what I take interest in. I think including music or songs I like a lot and making it artsy and creative will be a fun outlet for this project.
2) I've always had edits of characters in video games or lyric videos pop up on my For You Page on TikTok, and especially mixed media ones. I've always found them cool and creative and that's where my inspiration for this is coming from. I've seen a lot of edits to songs with characters like Ellie and Joel from The Last of Us or Chloe and Rachel from Life is Strange
3) I have decided I want to make this a lyric video for the song "Forwards Beckon Rebound" by Adrianne Lenker. This is my favorite song of hers and has a lot of potential for creativity with how whimsical the song is. I really want to figure out how to upload music to p5.js and also make the background like a picture of her or a picture of the album cover art the song comes from. I also want to figure out how to sync the lyrics to the music so they pop up in time with when Adrianne is singing. Since I've already done shapes in previous assignments I think I'll utilize that knowledge and add some elements to make it more artistic.
4) To finish this on time I need to use my studying strategy while I'm working on it. Put my phone away in a drawer or my closet, somwhere I can't reach it from my seat so I don't get distracted. That way I can just focus on my assignment and finish it on time, and also give it a lot of attention. I think since it involves music and an artist I really enjoy it'll motivate me to work on it since it'll be more fun.
5) In this project I did end up learning how to sync the text with the song. Honestly, that was the difficult part. I remembered how to add text from a previous assignment, but not how to make it sync. I learned about the time array with adding mp3 files which made it so I could chose the exact second I wanted the words to pop up. I wanted to add a fade in and fade out but it was a lot of work getting the text to appear and disappear at the exact moment I wanted it to without it ending early or overlapping with another text. That's why I ended up just having it all stay at the same time but showing up in sync with the song, and in different locations so it all fit. The Coding Train and other random video on youtube was how I figured out how to use FFT to make the small particles I added interact with the song. That was surprisingly less difficult to navigate than the syncing thing. The shooting stars (basically just white lines) were fun because I already knew how to make lines but I had to figure out how to make them move. I looked to youtube to remind myself how to make it so they appear in random spots. I also used Audacity to trim the mp3 file so it wasn't super long and I used DaFont.com to change the boring arial font. Overall I really had fun making this and adding what I thought would be artistic to one of my favorite songs.
